Hopefully by now you have cloned and
you have this repo locally.
I'm gonna put my VS code here.
I put a couple of other files in here.
There's a prettier file, just so
you can form metric code the same
way that I'm formatting it.
If you're on VS code here,
please install the prettier extension.
That'll help you a lot as well.
And then you want to turn
on format on Save as well.
What else is in here?
There is a gitignore file for
you and an editor config.
You have to install an editor
config extension as well.
And this will just set all of our vs
codes to indent by two and use spaces and
stuff like that.
Okay, so let's hop into this,
we're gonna start by doing long polling.
So go ahead and
come into here we're going to exercise.
And we're gonna be working
with this project first.
Not in HTTP two and pulling.
Yeah, pulling exercise.
That's where we are right now.
Okay, so like I said,
we are writing a chat app today, right?
So I'm a product manager now.
So I think about everything in
terms of product requirements and
user demographics and
like JIRA tickets unfortunately.
Sorry to anyone that works at Atlassian.
Let's think about
the product requirements for
someone that's going to actually
be using a chat client.
Like if I if I'm What kind of
person is going to your website,
what am I going to be
able to expect to do?
I mean expect to be able to post new
messages to see old messages right so
when I first connect I can see like,
I have some history of other messages.
I need to be able to see
my own messages right?
If I post something I should be able
to kind of meet see that reflected in
the user interface.
And then as new messages roll in,
I want to see those in a reasonable
amount of time, right?
Because if it's like a long delay,
if I post a message,
then it takes 30 seconds to show up.
It's not really chat anymore, right?
It's like a crappy email client.
[LAUGH] Like it's the worst middle ground
between those two different products.
So real time here is actually fairly
important that we need to have some sort
of tight feedback cycle for
all of our users here.
So it wouldn't be just enough to
say on page load, load the history.
I'm done right?
You need to have some
sort of strategy of like,
I'm gonna keep pulling
messages out of the server, so
that users can feel like they're actually
engaged with whatever is going on.
So, the first one we're gonna be talking
about the first strategy for doing this.
And basically, everything that we're doing
today is just a different strategy on
what do we do with how do
we make this real time.
he first one we're gonna be
doing is called long polling.
And which is just a really fancy way of
saying, make a whole lot of requests,
right?
It's actually really not even
more complicated than that.
Really all you're gonna be
doing is just make a request.
See if something's new and then like.
Three seconds later, five seconds later,
10 seconds later asked again.
Okay, how about now, right?
You just keep making requests over and
over and over again.
So what's like some keys here?
We're gonna make some sort of endpoints
that we can call over and over again.
So if you imagine that you have, 10,000
users, and they're all making a request
every two seconds, that endpoint is going
to see a whole lot of traffic, right?
So you need to get everything that's
like hot out of that code path.
So if you can't be writing to the database
every single time that someone calls that
pull endpoint.
Or else we're gonna have a very,
very overwhelmed database, right?
So that's the big key here is you want to
make sure that whatever you're pulling
endpoint is it's very fast.
And it's not going to knock over your
servers because essentially what you're
going to do at the end of the day
is your DDOS yourself if you're not
careful, right?
DDOS stands for
Distributed Denial of Service, right?
Which is basically like hackers
way of bringing down services.
They just make a tonne of requests, right?
You're basically writing
that against yourself.
The first thing that people always want
to do is like, I know how to do this,
I'm gonna use set interval, right?
Which is actually the worst way that
we could possibly do this, right?
So set interval is a function in
JavaScript that basically says,
take this function and
run it every x seconds.
So let's say I took my polling function,
I said, Hey,
call this polling function
every three seconds.
What happens if my API takes
four seconds to respond?
I'm going to start making requests before
the other one has finished, right?
Which is going to be a huge problem
because now I'm going to have stale data
rolling in.
And I'm also going to be making
requests before they even come back in.
So don't use set interval.
I'm just saying that upfront because
I know everyone's thinking that.
And I just want to cut that off
before we get anything out there.
The first one we're gonna be
doing is with set timeout.
But we'll get into that in just a second.
So let's hop into pulling back end.
Okay, so first thing here,
we're gonna go into polling/exercise here.
I've actually run npm install to make
sure you're running npm install here.
This will just go install
the dependencies.
You can see it's only 173.
Which given the context of node,
it's not that many packages.
The backend was under with express.
That's fine.
Again if you need some help with that,
take Scott masters course.
It's great.
Yeah, looking here at
the other dependencies,
there's body parser actually don't
think this is necessary anymore.
But this was I just
installed this out of habit.
Morgan is a logging framework so we can
actually see all the requests coming in.
And the nano buffer is
basically a limited array.
So, we make an array of length 50.
And then when something newer comes in and
it's at length 50,
I'll just pop one off the end right?
So, at most we'll have 50
messages in our backlog.
I could have written this myself, but
I was way too lazy to do that, so
that's how we brought in
Nana buffer to do that.
And then I'm always interested to ask
people how do you pronounce that word?
And the correct pronunciation for
it is there is no correct pronunciation.
I found that out from the author.
[LAUGH] So I would say no daman or you can
say no demon if you'd like Pokemon I don't
know I'm always torn of how to say that.
But we'll go with no daman because
that's just what comes to mind, okay?
So let's hop into the backend here.
There's one server.js file here.
And again, I wrote a lot of this for you.
But let's just kind of
take a tour around here.
I am using ES modules,
which is fairly new for node,
but I was pretty excited to write this.
And I'm making you read it too.
This is the future of how Node JS
will continue to be written.
So I would say get used to it.
I think you have to actually set
a flag in your life too many
package that Jason's here,
yeah, type module.
It won't work unless you do that.
So we talked about nano buffer.
This is like our limited array.
And then I wrote a function here.
To give it to you in the correct order, so
you don't have to interact directly with
MSG, you can just call get messages and
it'll give you the last 50 order
messages in reverse sort, right?
Because we want the newest messages first.
And then I pushed a message in here for
you.
You can change this if you want, you can
say Brian Is dumb or something like that?
I don't know.
I don't know why Brian would say that but
I guess that's what he's gonna say now.
Here we're getting express ready to run.
We use Morgan to our logging framework we
use body parser you can see it's crossed
out I think because it is deprecated.
I don't remember how to do it off top my
head so we're gonna leave this works,
it's fine.
And then we serve everything from
front end statically which is just
basically Serve the index HTML,
serve the style.CSS, all that stuff.
That's what all that does, okay?
We're gonna write some
code here in app.getpoll.
And we're gonna write some
code here in app.postpoll.
And then down here we're going
to start the server/ We're gonna
listen on port 3000.
But this can be anything, right?
I think other parts of the course
have as 8080, it's up to you.
And then this part here
the process that ended up port.
I worked in cloud too long and
I know all of them will insert
the correct port to sort of put in there.
So if you ever tried to deploy this,
this is what your port would look like.
So I just do it, I have it now.
Okay, I think that's a pretty good.
That's the back end.
Let's go look at the front
end really quick.
You can see I wrote some
very wonderful CSS for you.
It's gorgeous.
And then some pretty basic HTML here
which is just a form and that is it.
And it's using materialise for
the font, okay?
And then we have pulling chat here,
that js.
So we have two elements we're gonna
grab here a chat and messages.
We're gonna store all the messages that
we've gotten from the server here in
this All Chat variable.
This is the interval that
we're gonna pull out.
I just chose three seconds,
feel free to change this.
This is in milliseconds.
Add an event listener to
listen to form submits.
We're going to write post new message and
get new messages.
This is my lovely render function that
was telling you that is just high art,
also known as terrible.
A template function and
then this getting messages this will
actually get things rolling down here.
So that that's all the code
that I wrote for you.
And now we're just gonna kinda fill in
some blanks to make this real time.
So let's actually go get
our project running,
you should be able to
just say NPM run Dev.
And it should just work,
you should be able to open this now.
And you can see this should come up,
right?
Someone can come in here but
their username.
We're not not doing off today, by the way,
cuz I didn't want to spend literally two
thirds of the course talking about auth.
So, roll your own auth in this case
I'm just gonna say my name is Brian.
And the server will believe me.
And then you'll say something
like that and click Submit.
Obviously it's not doing anything right
now because we'd haven't written all that
code, but that's going to be the gist.
And then down here where the bar is,
that's where all the messages
will start showing up.
Do you like my lovely design page as well?
It's yeah, I just if I was
going to describe this word,
this course in one word, it'd be.
Artistic, I think.
I'm just getting this terrible,
but I did it myself.
It's my pilot terrible, okay?
So the fun thing about polling is
that it's really straightforward.
There's nothing really that
special about it like.
We invented all these words to
describe what pulling is and reality.
It's just like, it's just responding
to an HTTP request a lot.
So are getting new messages here
is actually gonna be our, sorry,
we're back here in server
back here in server.
This get right here is gonna be
super simple because all we're
gonna do is just respond quickly
to whatever they're asking for.
So here we're just going to delete this.
And we're just going to say rez as in
response.JSON, which is gonna respond
with you know, Jason headers and all the
correct stuff with that thanks, express.
And you're just going to
say MSG get messages.
And that's it.
Surprise, [LAUGH] So this part is
not that complicated because again,
we're just responding to
a pretty normal request here.
Same thing here with the post.
We're gonna grab some
stuff off of the request.
So we'll say const user text.
There it is, equals req.body.
So that's going to be whatever the user
over here posted is so Brian and blah.
All right, so
Brian will be the user and the.
Text will be lol right?
That's gonna be in there.
We're gonna say,
we can ignore that part don't need to
put that we're gonna say MSG.push.
And we're just gonna push a new
message into our message queue here.
So here, we're gonna say user text and
time date.now, right?
Cuz they just posted it so
we're gonna store the timestamp
that they posted to that.
And then down here you can see rest.jason.
Input whatever you want.
You can respond back with the messages
again if you want to I just put
status okay.
And And that's it.
So that's the wonderful thing here
about long polling is the room,
remarkably simple and
the fact that they just don't deviate
from normal API writing stuff, right?
Both of these,
you could have looked at these and
said I don't even know that these
are long polling endpoints, right?
These could just be normal endpoints.
And you can use them as normal endpoints,
right?
Like I could imagine later that
you write like an IOS app.
And you just call this and you don't pull
it you just call it once to get the latest
messages and then you're done, right?
So it can it can do some double duty for
that.